Sync & corrections by Elderfel
www.addic7ed.com
(Theme music playing)
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
(Panting)
(Gasping)
(Hundred Eyes)
Stop struggling, fool.
You were struck by
a five- step snake.
His venom moves swiftly.
Most die before their fifth step.
Where is my sword?
(Hundred Eyes)
Taken away.
Punishment for breaking curfew.
I need to go, Sifu.
Now.
How do you revenge a snake?
You would be a fool to think
only one serpent lays in wait.
There is always
a deadlier strike to come.
One should walk away.
(Jingim)
Sifu.
Master Polo.
Save your breath.
The Khan requests
that I inquire as to the Latin's health.
Will he survive?
Father will be most pleased.
(Hundred Eyes)
And, um, the Prince?
Without compassion,
what is there
to distinguish men from beasts?
What was your student
doing beyond the walls?
(Marco)
Sleep escaped me.
I thought a ride would clear my mind.
So close to your throat...
A few inches lower,
the venom would have stilled your heart.
Tread carefully, Master Polo.
Or you will find yourself
a more permanent sleep.
(Kublai moaning)
Great Khan.
Business forces us
to disturb you.
Escort the concubine out.
Leave her to her task.
(Moaning continues)
Tell me, son,
what news of the Latin?
Would you rather not hear
the news we carry of the Song rebels?
I would have asked first if I had.
The foreigner claims his mind was
muddied with thoughts that hindered sleep.
He hoped a ride in the grasslands
might assist him.
Oh.
I wonder what disturbed him so.
The healer promised
a full recovery.
What news of the Song?
They request a parley.
To what end,
we do not know.
(Jingim)
It seems an auspicious opportunity.
They are afraid of war.
An opportunity born of what, though?
It makes little sense
with their current standing.
But the parley will give us clarity.
They request you personally, Sire.
Perhaps a ruse to take your life.
We must not be deceived.
Prepare to destroy them.
They will make do with emissaries.
The thought of a parley pleases me.
Jingim's instincts are correct.
Assemble the War Council.
(Moaning contentedly)
(Ling Ling laughing)
(Jia Sidao) She has quite a way
with the boy, doesn't she?
Caring. Kind.
She is her mother's daughter.
Will my mother
come back for me, Uncle?
Of course.
She is simply off learning
to be the best dancer in the world
- so she can teach you one day.
- Mmm- hmm.
Then I will be the best dancer
- in the world.
- Mmm- hmm.
'Tis odd...
I've not seen Mei Lin since
the Emperor's spirit left his body.
Where does your sister
keep herself now?
Returned to her old ways, I suspect.
Practicing her art in brothels.
Mei Lin was cared for
and welcomed in her time here.
What would drive her away?
Treasure?
You have enough to share, surely.
I am not my sister's protector.
(Empress Dowager)
Why?
Was she not yours
in the days before your ascension?
- That was a long time ago, Empress.
- (Ling Ling laughing)
Would such a look have escaped
your face toward my husband?
(Jia Sidao) I never knew
your husband to eat jonquils.
If it suited him, he would have.
And you would have worn
a more esteemed look.
I am the Emperor!
(Jia Sidao)
If my Emperor could eat flowers
and keep the Mongols in check...
I would gladly serve him a garden.
(Marco)
Let me pass.
(Guard)
What's your business, foreigner?
(Marco)
Let me pass!
- (Guard) What's your business...
- (Za Bing) Leave him.
I need to speak with Kokachin.
Delusion is an imperfection
that defiles the mind.
I must speak with her, please.
Is it the serpent's sting
that has deluded you?
I intend no harm.
(Scoffs)
You are incapable of harm,
Master Marco.
You need to be more vigilant
in your protection of Kokachin.
She is in danger.
Concern yourself
with the danger you face.
The Blue Princess
is secure in my care.
Leave now
or suffer my fate.
(Sighs)
(Relieved groan)
(Za Bing urinating)
Have you ever sampled
the third sex, Latin?
(Urinating continues)
(Sighs)
Four winters ago, I took an arrow
in the back fighting the North Hordes.
I tasted blood for two days.
Great Khan bid me come and see him
when I was finally able to stand.
And I'm his own flesh and blood.
You were strong
and quickly saddled
your own steed again.
So brave.
I heard word of a parley
with the Song rebels.
- Is it true?
- It is.
The War Council assembles.
In your absence?
We wait on Father.
Where is he?
Surely tending to
his round- eyed pet.
Might you offer your Empress tea?
Or will you continue to stand idle?
Forgive me, Empress.
Spare the Europa no thought, Jingim.
Do not let your father
doubt you the better man.
I am the better man.
The better man does not sit in the dark
with his woman and his jealousies.
The better man stands erect and strong
and finds a way
to tilt the scales in his favor.
- (Horse whinnying)
- (Sube) Easy, girl.
Sube.
A message for my brother.
It's urgent.
Follow our arrangement
and make fast your horse.
Yes, ma'am.
(Ahmad) Sidao beheaded
our men not weeks ago.
Why call for peace now?
(Jingim) He fears the wrath
that comes and seeks to alter course.
The man is not circumspect.
Jia Sidao is too arrogant for that.
(Yusuf)
His ambition is his arrogance.
But the Chancellor is not the only
mind at work within the Walled City.
You see a different landscape, Yusuf?
Have your spies received
intelligence from Xiangyang?
No, Sire.
I rely now on my own.
The Boy Emperor
is but five seasons old.
His coronation day approaches.
Sidao may play the royal,
but he's a pretender to the throne.
He desires power, but holds
no royal position or blood claim.
There are other ways to secure power,
Prince Jingim.
Are we safe to assume
Jia Sidao takes such steps presently?
(Jingim)
Yes.
A divided empire
is an opportunity.
One that must be seized upon
with ruthless force.
One that can be
molded to serve us.
(Kublai)
Sidao is a peasant...
Empress a grieving widow.
A grieving widow
loyal to the memory of her husband.
The dead Emperor
was always a reluctant warrior.
(Grunts)
Which hand offers the parley?
Either way,
it is better to
know what we face...
and win the war
with this knowledge
before we consider the battlefield.
We parley.
See what the table presents us.
Perhaps there will be
a dung- stuffed head of a five- year- old.
Then we will have our answer.
Ahmad...
you will lead the parley
with the Song ambassadors.
Depart at dawn.
Sire...
might I recommend
sending Prince Jingim...
so the parley has some
semblance of royal command?
Prince Jingim will
oversee the conference.
You honor me
with this task.
(Grunts)
Heal the battle wounds
of Wuchang, Jingim...
as a diplomat making peace.
(Marco grunts)
Never volunteer
for a stealth mission.
You might as well
have a barking dog accompany you.
- I need my sword.
- Are all Latins as dense as you?
I would give you a sword...
but I'm afraid whose body
the blade would find
when the rumors reach you.
Your father has returned.
(Ostrich honking)
(Niccolò)
Great Khan,
a rare and exotic gift
from the Arabian Peninsula
by route of Dunhuang.
(Kublai)
Animal smells of shit.
It has been aboard our caravan
for weeks, Great Khan.
Rise.
A caravan we humbly
take through your kingdom.
A kindness we wish to continue,
if your wisdom should allow us.
Prosperous business
is always welcome.
We gladly gave tribute,
Lord Khan.
You shall be allowed
to continue your trade.
My realm is yours.
Do you have
any interest in your son?
Yes, Sire.
I am anxious to embrace him.
It has been too long.
Then turn, merchant, and behold.
You look like an Oriental.
(Niccolò)
One must adapt to survive, brother.
And Marco has.
One can adapt
without forsaking his heritage...
his father's heritage.
My father forsook his son.
- I understand your...
- You understand nothing!
I am sorry I had to leave you,
but it is more dangerous
on the Silk Road...
Why did you return?
To bank profits, pay tribute,
mostly to see my boy.
Is that not enough?
It is enough.
It's not believable.
There are reasons
why we left you.
Reasons we must again
return to the Silk Road.
- Commerce.
- No.
You must trust me when I say
all efforts that I make are for
our home... our Lord and for you.
I need your help.
Say it and it is done.
Give me your blade.
(Niccolò)
For what purpose?
This was not an accident.
- What trouble have you got into?
- It is no concern of yours.
What requires a sword, Marco?
Someone is in danger.
- Someone?
- A friend.
A woman?
Marco, listen to me.
Despite your dress and visage,
you are not one of them.
You never will be.
You get involved with them,
you damage us.
You damage the family business.
I thought he would never go.
One day, he will understand.
Your chest is puffed.
In this place,
that's what whores do
when they want to get fucked.
The horseman with the shaved head,
where is he?
That's half of Cambulac.
This one deals in jewels
he could not rightfully own.
That's the other half of Cambulac.
Now, piss off.
You know who I speak of.
Tell me where I can find him.
Did you enter
my tea house unarmed?
Answer me!
(Grunting)
(Gasping)
(Groans)
Tell me where!
The south end.
The shanty by the ironworks.
If you're lying,
I will come back.
Please do.
(Grunts)
(Altan gasping)
(Faint scratching sound)
(Scratching continues)
(Grunting)
Why do you threaten Kokachin?
(Grunts)
I saw you on the grasslands.
I saw you take the jewels.
What concern is it of yours?
(Grunts)
I threatened Kokachin with nothing!
You pursued me.
I thought you the danger.
I would lay down my life for her.
(Men shouting)
(Marco)
What are you doing? No!
Let me go!
Let me go! Now!
- Let me go!
- (Guard) No!
(Marco)
You're making a mistake.
Tell Vice Regent Yusuf where I am.
He will tell you.
It's on his orders.
(Cell locks)
You did this.
No.
Those savages did this,
though we did nothing.
Those dogs you live with,
they don't know
how to treat men of God.
- We were...
- (Niccolò) Smuggling.
We were smuggling.
There is no point
lying to the boy.
Do you know
what they do for that?
Why am I here?
We had to store
the goods somewhere.
The coin, son.
You left me
in this foreign land...
and now you have destroyed me.
Do you not see that?
You're a coward.
All my life
I have waited for the great adventurer
to offer me a place at his side.
I finally got what I wanted.
Sidao is not here?
With regret, no.
Surely, the same regret
the Great Khan offers
for not attending.
I am his son and heir
and I speak with full authority.
And I, Prince,
speak with authority from the Walled City.
And from whose authority
does that flow?
The child, the old woman,
or the pretender?
I speak on behalf of
all the Song dynasty.
(Ahmad)
You mean all that remains
by a shred of silk
down by the Han River.
We take your request
for parley with seriousness.
As a gesture of such,
the Great Khan releases
our prisoners of war from Wuchang to you.
Your gesture is greatly appreciated.
So was yours.
Though returning our prisoners
without their bodies
was an interesting prelude for peace.
A regrettable circumstance of war
and one we wish not to repeat.
We are in agreement.
And my father's minister will capitulate.
Of course.
Provided suitable terms
and tribute payments are offered.
We are prepared to offer...
Five hundred thousand
taels of silver.
bolts of silk.
And three of every
five grains of rice you sow...
for 10 years.
This is beyond reason.
We called for this parley in good faith.
You called for this parley in fear.
If you do not wish to
engage in honorable terms,
- we will return to...
- (Jingim) Ambassador,
this rate is unwarranted.
We will find a suitable figure.
And Minister Ahmad will wait
with the convoy by the horses.
The Great Kublai Khan
is interested in peace with South China.
All he demands is that your leaders
surrender the Song dynasty to history.
Become unified with the North
in a new dynasty under a new emperor.
This message
is a burden of royalty.
One better suited to myself
than the Minister.
Your respect for Chinese ways and culture
is known to us, Prince.
We are still new to
the ways of your kingdom.
Value is the first thing you seek.
Risk, the second.
The silk worm is sacred,
more valuable
than gems and gold, Master Polo.
Its theft is punishable by death.
Please... we did not know...
Enough.
What is their origin?
They were not procured by us.
A man in our caravan
acquired them.
Where is this man now?
He did not survive the journey,
Lord Khan.
And I'm quite confident
neither shall you.
A dispatch has arrived, Chancellor.
From your sister.
I've just received word that
the great and noble Kublai Khan
will not be attending
my peace parley.
What parley?
What have you done?
You no longer hold a place
in the Royal Court.
Old woman,
you have no authority
to dictate or declare my place.
My ambassadors were instructed to secure
an accord with the Mongols at all costs.
When they return,
I will have every authority
and you will find yourself
a lonely warmonger.
Your currency is the fear of war.
But it is spent
and you are nothing without it.
The Song shall not share rice
with that bloated Mongolian cur.
The Council will
embrace peace if offered.
The people of South China
will do their Lord's bidding.
And so will you.
(Chains rattling)
Unchain him.
Leave us.
Tell me of your father.
He...
He is a well- regarded trader.
His shipping contacts
have remained loyal through the years.
I ask of character
and you tell me of his profession.
Do you have any of your colorful language
that speaks to the man or not?
It would be artful color, My Lord.
A mirage.
(Kublai) I grew hearing tales
of the Great Genghis.
I knew him only as a small boy,
but the man my eyes saw
was not big enough.
Genghis of my mind...
he was a giant.
Our imaginations outrun us, Sire.
When you made your way to Cambulac
and your father left you to me,
you had gone no further east,
had you?
No.
These silkworms...
they are native
to the Jiangxi province.
A region you have never visited.
But your father and uncle
have since traveled there.
It's the cocoon
that gives the silk.
Comes out like sweet milk, then hardens.
Ugly worm turns
into an ugly moth, but...
leaves such treasure behind.
Then some child somewhere
crushes the moth, but...
the silk is still mine.
The worm...
the silk...
the child...
All mine.
You will be spared.
Your father and uncle
will be sentenced.
Artful color will not
alter their character.
What is their punishment?
It is on this that I dwell.
(Knock on door)
(Knocking continues)
You've been fighting.
A spy, he tracked me.
Who was it?
A foreigner.
A round eye.
He is no threat.
The Imperial Guard arrested him.
You did not need
to set the snake.
If the Guard have him...
He knows nothing.
He thought I was trying to hurt you,
to steal from you.
And he tried to defend me.
Why would he do that?
I do not know.
But I know your mind.
I turn my heart to no other.
The gems have traded well.
We should go.
Patience.
War is coming.
We will find cover
for our escape within it.
The Song have agreed
to cease their raids in the west
and pay tribute to you, Father.
Peace without bloodshed
is upon us.
Was there a sense of where
the parley offer came from?
Who is the administering hand?
(Jingim) To this end,
the Minister was wise to inquire.
They artfully evaded a direct answer.
But it would be safe
to assume the Walled City is caught
amidst a power struggle
between the Chancellor Jia Sidao
and the Empress Dowager.
Let the yellow birds
battle over their defeat
while we celebrate
the well- crafted victory of Prince Jingim.
- Yes.
- (Court murmurs in agreement)
(Chabi)
Such an ugly little creature.
(Kublai)
Yet men will kill for it.
Risk my wrath.
Betray their blood.
Because to them...
it is fortune, not legacy,
that changes a life.
(Growls softly)
Come to me.
(Clears throat)
(Grunts)
What is wrong?
I'm simply surprised.
By?
Your attention these days
seems to be occupied with...
Chinese matters.
Ah.
Yes.
These Chinese, they...
require careful attention.
Well, I should...
have to watch her close.
Not something the Great Khan
should be troubled with.
Let me find you
someone more exotic.
An Indian.
A Zanzibari.
Perhaps, a Slav.
It's her...
Her prowess is evident,
yet simply not harnessed in the...
proper manner.
Something that should be
remedied with much practice.
You worry without cause,
my lovely, favorite wife.
You have a place
above all others.
Ceremonially.
Chabi...
you have my devotion.
It is time to honor
Jingim's Mongol triumph over the Chinese.
Your mother sent a message today.
An important message
that arrived too late.
It cost me greatly.
But luck was with me.
I turned your mother's failure
to my favor.
Still, mistakes demand correction.
I have a tale to tell you
before sleep.
(Theater music playing)
(Kublai chuckling)
It's the Cricket Minister.
(Laughing) It's the Cricket Minister.
Look how they leap. (Laughing)
Look how they leap.
(Man singing in Cantonese)
(Singing continues)
(Court laughing)
A victorious son!
(Kublai chuckling)
(Kublai)
Ahmad!
(Jia Sidao)
Long ago...
the consort Yao Niang
was the favorite of Emperor Li Yu.
She was a dancer, like you.
Emperor Yu believed
that a woman's feet were
the very essence of feminine beauty.
This is why
he liked Yao Niang.
Her feet were small,
delicate, perfect.
Women with such feet
became coveted.
Measures had to be taken
to keep their feet the perfect size.
Three inches long.
(Giggles)
They had to be bound.
That is not
how that happened.
I congratulate you, brother,
on a fine accord.
You are now proven
in battle and politics.
Warrior and diplomat.
(Man singing in Cantonese)
And I beg forgiveness if I,
at all, overstepped at the parley.
It was your hour, not mine.
Your aggression weakened the Song.
Wolf and crow, Ahmad.
I am just a bookkeeper.
I tally, I account, I serve.
It was our day.
Were we born of the same mother,
we could not have worked
together better as brothers.
(Jia Sidao)
A piece of linen...
is wrapped
over the four small toes...
pulled under the instep
and behind the heel.
Come.
(Jia Sidao)
Now, this linen...
is tightened daily
until the toes break,
fold under the foot
and flatten themselves
against the sole.
The heel becomes slender over time.
And finally...
the heel shifts forward
to the ball of the foot,
breaking the arch
and forcing it upward.
My Lady.
The Khan is dissatisfied.
I am pained
to hear such news.
As well you should be.
Show me.
Empress?
Show me how you move.
I will remedy your flaws.
Do you think you would like to be
one of these hallowed women?
Like the beautiful dancer Yao Niang?
Chancellor?
Yes?
Your mother should have
started this years ago.
She causes you this pain.
(Bones cracking)
(Screaming)
Be still, my Sunflower.
- Be still.
- (Screaming continues)
(Horses whinnying)
(Men shouting)
(Man)
We are your ambassadors.
Please! Mercy!
We are Song!
(Groans)
(Speaking Cantonese)
(Kublai laughing)
(Man laughing)
I expect that sacrifice was a ruse
the Great Khan had intended.
Hmm.
Do you worry for your father?
My father brought
his plight upon himself.
I know this.
It keeps sleep at bay, hmm?
A persistent affliction
since I was a boy.
And is it this affliction
that sees you roaming
at night on horseback?
The canals called to me at home.
Here, the grasslands.
(Kublai)
It is a demon like no other.
One who sleeps
wherever he lays his head
can never understand the beast.
You, too, My Lord?
The distractions of rule
occupy my mind when I should sleep.
You are a thinker, Latin,
as am I.
This is good.
Amends must be made
for your father's crime.
(Sighs)
I understand.
You will decide his fate.
My Lord?
Left to my vice regent, Yusuf,
or myself,
your father's punishment
would be certain.
His thief heart would now be still.
I know the pain this will cause you.
I know compassion.
And you know our laws...
our customs.
You will choose
your father's punishment.
And then you shall find sleep.
Sync & corrections by Elderfel
www.addic7ed.com
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org